ovs-dpctl(8)                                             Open vSwitch Manual                                             ovs-dpctl(8)



NAME
       ovs-dpctl - administer Open vSwitch datapaths

SYNOPSIS
       ovs-dpctl [options] command [switch] [args...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  ovs-dpctl  program  can create, modify, and delete Open vSwitch datapaths.  A single machine may host any number of data‐
       paths.

       A newly created datapath is associated with only one network device, a virtual network device sometimes called the  datapath's
       ``local port''.  A newly created datapath is not, however, associated with any of the host's other network devices.  To inter‐
       cept and process traffic on a given network device, use the add-if command to explicitly add that network device to the  data‐
       path.

       If ovs-vswitchd(8) is in use, use ovs-vsctl(8) instead of ovs-dpctl.

       Most  ovs-dpctl  commands  that  work with datapaths take an argument that specifies the name of the datapath.  Datapath names
       take the form [type@]name, where name is the network device associated with the datapath's local port.  If type is  given,  it
       specifies the datapath provider of name, otherwise the default provider system is assumed.

       The following commands manage datapaths.

       add-dp dp [netdev[,option]...]
              Creates datapath dp, with a local port also named dp.  This will fail if a network device dp already exists.

              If netdevs are specified, ovs-dpctl adds them to the new datapath, just as if add-if was specified.

       del-dp dp
              Deletes datapath dp.  If dp is associated with any network devices, they are automatically removed.

       add-if dp netdev[,option]...
              Adds  each netdev to the set of network devices datapath dp monitors, where dp is the name of an existing datapath, and
              netdev is the name of one of the host's network devices, e.g. eth0.  Once a network device has been added  to  a  data‐
              path,  the datapath has complete ownership of the network device's traffic and the network device appears silent to the
              rest of the system.

              A netdev may be followed by a comma-separated list of options.  The following options are currently supported:

              type=type
                     Specifies the type of port to add.  The default type is system.

              port_no=port
                     Requests a specific port number within the datapath.  If this option is not specified then one will be automati‐
                     cally assigned.

              key=value
                     Adds an arbitrary key-value option to the port's configuration.

              ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5) documents the available port types and options.

       set-if dp port[,option]...
              Reconfigures  each port in dp as specified.  An option of the form key=value adds the specified key-value option to the
              port or overrides an existing key's value.  An option of the form key=, that is, without a value, deletes the key-value
              named  key.   The  type and port number of a port cannot be changed, so type and port_no are only allowed if they match
              the existing configuration.

       del-if dp netdev...
              Removes each netdev from the list of network devices datapath dp monitors.

       dump-dps
              Prints the name of each configured datapath on a separate line.

       [-s | --statistics] show [dp...]
              Prints a summary of configured datapaths, including their datapath numbers and a list of ports connected to each  data‐
              path.  (The local port is identified as port 0.)  If -s or --statistics is specified, then packet and byte counters are
              also printed for each port.

              If one or more datapaths are specified, information on only those datapaths are displayed.  Otherwise,  ovs-dpctl  dis‐
              plays information about all configured datapaths.

   DEBUGGING COMMANDS
       The  following  commands  are  primarily useful for debugging Open vSwitch.  The flow table entries (both matches and actions)
       that they work with are not OpenFlow flow entries.  Instead, they are different and considerably simpler flows  maintained  by
       the Open vSwitch kernel module.  Use ovs-ofctl(8), instead, to work with OpenFlow flow entries.

       The  dp  argument  to  each of these commands is optional when exactly one datapath exists, in which case that datapath is the
       default.  When multiple datapaths exist, then a datapath name is required.

       [-m | --more] dump-flows [dp]
              Prints to the console all flow entries in datapath dp's flow table.  Without -m or --more, output  omits  match  fields
              that a flow wildcards entirely; with -m or --more, output includes all wildcarded fields.

       add-flow [dp] flow actions
       [--clear] [--may-create] [-s | --statistics] mod-flow [dp] flow actions
              Adds or modifies a flow in dp's flow table that, when a packet matching flow arrives, causes actions to be executed.

              The  add-flow  command succeeds only if flow does not already exist in dp.  Contrariwise, mod-flow without --may-create
              only modifies the actions for an existing flow.  With --may-create, mod-flow will add a new flow or modify an  existing
              one.

              If  -s or --statistics is specified, then mod-flows prints the modified flow's statistics.  A flow's statistics are the
              number of packets and bytes that have passed through the flow, the elapsed time since the flow last processed a  packet
              (if ever), and (for TCP flows) the union of the TCP flags processed through the flow.

              With  --clear,  mod-flows zeros out the flow's statistics.  The statistics printed if -s or --statistics is also speci‐
              fied are those from just before clearing the statistics.

       [-s | --statistics] del-flow [dp] flow
              Deletes the flow from dp's flow table that matches flow.  If -s or --statistics is specified, then mod-flows prints the
              deleted flow's statistics.

       del-flows [dp]
              Deletes all flow entries from datapath dp's flow table.

OPTIONS
       -s
       --statistics
              Causes the show command to print packet and byte counters for each port within the datapaths that it shows.

       -m
       --more Increases the verbosity of dump-flows output.

       -t
       --timeout=secs
              Limits  ovs-dpctl  runtime  to  approximately secs seconds.  If the timeout expires, ovs-dpctl will exit with a SIGALRM
              signal.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for every module and facility to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is  a
              list of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each category below:

              ·      A  valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log level change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
                     respectively.

              ·      off,  emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will be
                     logged, and messages of lower severity will be filtered out.  off filters out all messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the  log levels set for file, logging to a file will not take place unless --log-file is also specified
              (see below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent to --verbose=dbg.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables logging to a file.  If file is specified, then it is used as the exact name for the log file.  The default  log
              file name used if file is omitted is /var/log/openvswitch/ovs-dpctl.log.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

SEE ALSO
       ovs-appctl(8), ovs-vswitchd(8)



Open vSwitch                                                    2.0.2                                                    ovs-dpctl(8)
