ovsdb-server(1)                                          Open vSwitch Manual                                          ovsdb-server(1)



NAME
       ovsdb-server - Open vSwitch database server

SYNOPSIS
       ovsdb-server [database]...  [--remote=remote]...  [--run=command]

       Daemon options:
              [--pidfile[=pidfile]] [--overwrite-pidfile] [--detach] [--no-chdir]

       Logging options:
              [-v[module[:facility[:level]]]]...
              [--verbose[=module[:facility[:level]]]]...
              [--log-file[=file]]

       Public key infrastructure options:
              [--private-key=privkey.pem]
              [--certificate=cert.pem]
              [--ca-cert=cacert.pem]
              [--bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem]

       Runtime management options:
              --unixctl=socket

       Common options:
              [-h | --help] [-V | --version]


DESCRIPTION
       The  ovsdb-server program provides RPC interfaces to one or more Open vSwitch databases (OVSDBs).  It supports JSON-RPC client
       connections over active or passive TCP/IP or Unix domain sockets.

       Each OVSDB file may be specified on the  command  line  as  database.   If  none  is  specified,  the  default  is  /etc/open‐
       vswitch/conf.db.  The database files must already have been created and initialized using, for example, ovsdb-tool create.

OPTIONS
       --remote=remote
              Adds remote as a connection method used by ovsdb-server.  remote must take one of the following forms:

              pssl:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the given SSL port for a connection.  By default, connections are not bound to a particular local IP
                     address, but specifying ip limits connections to those from the given ip.  The --private-key, --certificate, and
                     --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              ptcp:port[:ip]
                     Listen  on  the given TCP port for a connection.  By default, connections are not bound to a particular local IP
                     address, but ip may be specified to listen only for connections to the given ip.

              punix:file
                     Listen on the Unix domain server socket named file for a connection.

              ssl:ip:port
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given ip, which must be expressed as an IP address (not a  DNS  name).
                     The --private-key, --certificate, and --ca-cert options are mandatory when this form is used.

              tcp:ip:port
                     Connect to the given TCP port on ip.

              unix:file
                     Connect to the Unix domain server socket named file.

              db:db,table,column
                     Reads  additional connection methods from column in all of the rows in table within db.  As the contents of col‐
                     umn changes, ovsdb-server also adds and drops connection methods accordingly.

                     If column's type is string or set of strings, then the connection methods are taken directly  from  the  column.
                     The connection methods in the column must have one of the forms described above.

                     If  column's  type is UUID or set of UUIDs and references a table, then each UUID is looked up in the referenced
                     table to obtain a row.  The following columns in the row, if present and of the correct type, configure  a  con‐
                     nection method.  Any additional columns are ignored.

                     target (string)
                            Connection  method,  in  one of the forms described above.  This column is mandatory: if it is missing or
                            empty then no connection method can be configured.

                     max_backoff (integer)
                            Maximum number of milliseconds to wait between connection attempts.

                     inactivity_probe (integer)
                            Maximum number of milliseconds of idle time on connection to client before sending  an  inactivity  probe
                            message.

                     It is an error for column to have another type.

       --run=command]
              Ordinarily  ovsdb-server  runs forever, or until it is told to exit (see RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS below).  With this
              option, ovsdb-server instead starts a shell subprocess running command.  When the subprocess  terminates,  ovsdb-server
              also  exits  gracefully.   If  the subprocess exits normally with exit code 0, then ovsdb-server exits with exit code 0
              also; otherwise, it exits with exit code 1.

              This option can be useful where a database  server  is  needed  only  to  run  a  single  command,  e.g.:  ovsdb-server
              --remote=punix:socket --run='ovsdb-client dump unix:socket Open_vSwitch'

   Daemon Options
       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes  a  file (by default, ovsdb-server.pid) to be created indicating the PID of the running process.  If the pidfile
              argument is not specified, or if it does not begin with /, then it is created in /var/run/openvswitch.

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the specified pidfile already exists and is locked by  a  running  process,
              ovsdb-server refuses to start.  Specify --overwrite-pidfile to cause it to instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Causes ovsdb-server to detach itself from the foreground session and run as a background process. ovsdb-server detaches
              only after it starts listening on all configured remotes.

       --monitor
              Creates an additional process to monitor the ovsdb-server daemon.  If the daemon dies due to a signal that indicates  a
              programming  error  (e.g.  SIGSEGV,  SIGABRT),  then the monitor process starts a new copy of it.  If the daemon die or
              exits for another reason, the monitor process exits.

              This option is normally used with --detach, but it also functions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By default, when --detach is specified, ovsdb-server changes its current working directory to the root directory  after
              it  detaches.  Otherwise, invoking ovsdb-server from a carelessly chosen directory would prevent the administrator from
              unmounting the file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior, preventing ovsdb-server from changing its  current  working  directory.
              This  may be useful for collecting core files, since it is common behavior to write core dumps into the current working
              directory and the root directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

   Logging Options
       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for every module and facility to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is  a
              list of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each category below:

              ·      A  valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log level change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
                     respectively.

              ·      off,  emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will be
                     logged, and messages of lower severity will be filtered out.  off filters out all messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the  log levels set for file, logging to a file will not take place unless --log-file is also specified
              (see below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent to --verbose=dbg.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables logging to a file.  If file is specified, then it is used as the exact name for the log file.  The default  log
              file name used if file is omitted is /var/log/openvswitch/ovsdb-server.log.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       The options described below for configuring the SSL public key infrastructure accept a special syntax for obtaining their con‐
       figuration from the database.  If any of these options is given db:db,table,column as its argument, then the actual file  name
       is  read  from the specified column in table within the db database.  The column must have type string or set of strings.  The
       first nonempty string in the table is taken as the file name.  (This means that ordinarily there should be at most one row  in
       table.)

       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing the private key used as ovsdb-server's identity for outgoing SSL connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing a certificate that certifies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be
              trustworthy.  The certificate must be signed by the certificate authority (CA) that the peer in  SSL  connections  will
              use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies  a PEM file containing the CA certificate that ovsdb-server should use to verify certificates presented to it
              by SSL peers.  (This may be the same certificate that SSL peers use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --cer‐
              tificate, or it may be a different one, depending on the PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables  verification  of certificates presented by SSL peers.  This introduces a security risk, because it means that
              certificates cannot be verified to be those of known trusted hosts.

       --bootstrap-ca-cert=cacert.pem
              When cacert.pem exists, this option has the same effect as -C or --ca-cert.  If it does not  exist,  then  ovsdb-server
              will  attempt  to  obtain the CA certificate from the SSL peer on its first SSL connection and save it to the named PEM
              file.  If it is successful, it will immediately drop the connection and reconnect, and from then on all SSL connections
              must be authenticated by a certificate signed by the CA certificate thus obtained.

              This  option  exposes the SSL connection to a man-in-the-middle attack obtaining the initial CA certificate, but it may
              be useful for bootstrapping.

              This option is only useful if the SSL peer sends its CA certificate as part of the SSL certificate chain.  The SSL pro‐
              tocol  does  not require the server to send the CA certificate, but ovsdb-client(8) can be configured to do so with the
              --peer-ca-cert option.

              This option is mutually exclusive with -C and --ca-cert.

   Other Options
       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which ovsdb-server listens for runtime management commands (see RUNTIME  MANAGE‐
              MENT  COMMANDS,  below).   If  socket does not begin with /, it is interpreted as relative to /var/run/openvswitch.  If
              --unixctl is  not  used  at  all,  the  default  socket  is  /var/run/openvswitch/ovsdb-server.pid.ctl,  where  pid  is
              ovsdb-server's process ID.  Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
       ovs-appctl(8) can send commands to a running ovsdb-server process.  The currently supported commands are described below.

   OVSDB-SERVER COMMANDS
       These commands are specific to ovsdb-server.

       exit   Causes ovsdb-server to gracefully terminate.

       ovsdb-server/compact [db]...
              Compacts each database db in-place.  If no db is specified, compacts every database in-place.  Databases are also auto‐
              matically compacted occasionally.

       ovsdb-server/reconnect
              Makes ovsdb-server drop all of the JSON-RPC connections to database clients and reconnect.

              This command might be useful for debugging issues with database clients.

       ovsdb-server/add-remote remote
              Adds a remote, as if --remote=remote had been specified on the ovsdb-server command line.   (If  remote  is  already  a
              remote, this command succeeds without changing the configuration.)

       ovsdb-server/remove-remote remote
              Removes  the  specified  remote  from the configuration, failing with an error if remote is not configured as a remote.
              This command only works with remotes that were named on --remote or  ovsdb-server/add-remote,  that  is,  it  will  not
              remove  remotes  added  indirectly because they were read from the database by configuring a db:db,table,column remote.
              (You can remove a database source with ovsdb-server/remove-remote db:db,table,column, but not individual remotes  found
              indirectly through the database.)

       ovsdb-server/list-remotes
              Outputs  a  list of the currently configured remotes named on --remote or ovsdb-server/add-remote, that is, it does not
              list remotes added indirectly because they were read from the database by configuring a db:db,table,column remote.

       ovsdb-server/add-db database
              Adds the database to the running ovsdb-server.  The database file must already have been created and initialized using,
              for example, ovsdb-tool create.

       ovsdb-server/remove-db database
              Removes database from the running ovsdb-server.  database must be a database name as listed by ovsdb-server/list-dbs.

              If  a  remote  has  been configured that points to the specified database (e.g. --remote=db:database,... on the command
              line), then it will be disabled until another database with the same name is added again (with ovsdb-server/add-db).

              Any public key infrastructure options specified through this database (e.g. --private-key=db:database,... on  the  com‐
              mand line) will be disabled until another database with the same name is added again (with ovsdb-server/add-db).

       ovsdb-server/list-dbs
              Outputs  a  list  of  the  currently  configured  databases  added  either  through  the  command  line  or through the
              ovsdb-server/add-db command.

   VLOG COMMANDS
       These commands manage ovsdb-server's logging settings.

       vlog/set [spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for every module and facility to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is  a
              list of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from each category below:

              ·      A  valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the
                     specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log level change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
                     respectively.

              ·      off,  emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will be
                     logged, and messages of lower severity will be filtered out.  off filters out all messages.   See  ovs-appctl(8)
                     for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless  of  the log levels set for file, logging to a file will not take place unless ovsdb-server was invoked with
              the --log-file option.

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a word but has no effect.

       vlog/set PATTERN:facility:pattern
              Sets the log pattern for facility to pattern.  Refer to ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid  syntax  for  pat‐
              tern.

       vlog/list
              Lists the supported logging modules and their current levels.

       vlog/reopen
              Causes  ovsdb-server  to  close  and reopen its log file.  (This is useful after rotating log files, to cause a new log
              file to be used.)

              This has no effect unless ovsdb-server was invoked with the --log-file option.

       vlog/disable-rate-limit [module]...
       vlog/enable-rate-limit [module]...
              By default, ovsdb-server limits the rate at which certain messages can be logged.  When a  message  would  appear  more
              frequently  than  the  limit, it is suppressed.  This saves disk space, makes logs easier to read, and speeds up execu‐
              tion, but occasionally troubleshooting requires more detail.  Therefore, vlog/disable-rate-limit allows rate limits  to
              be  disabled at the level of an individual log module.  Specify one or more module names, as displayed by the vlog/list
              command.  Specifying either no module names at all or the keyword any disables rate limits for every log module.

              The vlog/enable-rate-limit command, whose syntax is the same as vlog/disable-rate-limit, can be  used  to  re-enable  a
              rate limit that was previously disabled.

   MEMORY COMMANDS
       These commands report memory usage.

       memory/show
              Displays  some  basic statistics about ovsdb-server's memory usage.  ovsdb-server also logs this information soon after
              startup and periodically as its memory consumption grows.

   COVERAGE COMMANDS
       These commands manage ovsdb-server's ``coverage counters,'' which count the number of times particular events occur  during  a
       daemon's runtime.  In addition to these commands, ovsdb-server automatically logs coverage counter values, at INFO level, when
       it detects that the daemon's main loop takes unusually long to run.

       Coverage counters are useful mainly for performance analysis and debugging.

       coverage/show
              Displays the values of all of the coverage counters.

SEE ALSO
       ovsdb-tool(1).



Open vSwitch                                                    2.0.2                                                 ovsdb-server(1)
